[rock music]
♪ ♪
[woman singing in Japanese]
>> narrator: THIS IS THE STORY
OF A MAN WHO HAS YET TO REALIZE
HIS DESTINY.
THIS MAN LIVED A LIFE FILLED
WITH DESIRE, LOYALTY, AND
EXTRAVAGANCE.
HE LOVED HIS COMPANIONS, AND HE
STROVE FOR FREEDOM.
AND THEN SUDDENLY, HE WAS GONE.
BUT EVEN SO, SIMON LIVES ON.
HE MUST GO ON LIVING.
>> Lordgenome: THYMILPH HAS
FALLEN IN BATTLE, HAS HE?
>> YES, AND REPORTS SAY
DAI‐GUNZAN WAS STOLEN.
>> THYMILF WAS ONE OF THE FOUR
GENERALS.
MUST’VE GOTTEN CARELESS.
>> DON’T FORGET THE OLD SAYING,
"EVEN AN ARMADILLO WILL FIGHT
WHEN CORNERED."
WHICH IS ANOTHER WAY TO SAY ONE
MUST NEVER UNDERESTIMATE
ONE’S FOE.
>> WHAT NONSENSE.
IF SOME LOWLY ARMADILLO DID
TURN AROUND AND TRY TO FIGHT,
ALL ONE NEED DO IS CRUSH IT.
>> YOU DO NOT UNDERSTAND SOME OF
THE FINER SUBTLETIES OF THIS
WORLD, I SEE.
>> YOU FORGET WE’RE IN THE
PRESENCE OF THE SPIRAL KING.
YOUR HIGHNESS.
I ASK THAT THE HONOR OF RETAKING
DAI‐GUNZAN BE GIVEN TO ME,
CYTOMANDER, THE SWIFT.
>> NO, YOU MUST GIVE THAT
MISSION TO ME, SIRE.
THYMILPH WAS A DEAR FRIEND AND
COMPANION.
PLEASE, YOUR MAJESTY, GRANT ME
THE CHANCE TO AVENGE HIS DEATH.
I BEG YOU.
>> Lordgenome: A "DEAR FRIEND,"
YOU SAY?
>> YES, SIRE.
IN THIS WORLD, THERE ARE
FRIENDSHIPS THAT KNOW NOT THE
BOUNDARIES OF GENDER.
>> SO WHAT YOU’RE SAYING, IN
OTHER WORDS, IS THAT HE WAS
USEFUL TO YOUR ENDS.
>> HOLD YOUR TONGUE, ANTEATER.
>> Lordgenome: I CREATED YOU,
AND YET YOU SUGGEST THAT YOU
HAVE KNOWN A KIND OF FRIENDSHIP
OF WHICH I AM UNAWARE?
AS YOU WISH. GO, ADIANE.
>> THANK YOU, SIRE.
ADIANE, THE ELEGANT, WILL VISIT
THESE PATHETIC HUMANS AND VERSE
THEM IN THE POWER AND TERROR OF
THE SPIRAL KING.
>> Lordgenome: CYTOMANDER, YOU
DON’T LOOK PLEASED.
>> SPIRAL KING, YOU ARE BOTH THE
IMMORTAL CREATOR OF THIS WORLD
AND THE MONARCH RULING OVER ALL
WITHIN IT.
I HAVEN’T THE SLIGHTEST
INTENTION OF QUESTIONING OR
DEFYING YOUR DECISIONS.
>> Lordgenome: THEN LEAVE ME.
>> YES, SIRE.
>> SIRE.
>> Lordgenome: THEY SEEK OUT
THE LIGHT, EVEN THOUGH THE ONLY
THING AWAITING THEM IS DEATH’S
DARKNESS.
IT DISGUSTS ME...
PONDERING THE NATURE OF HOW
"HUMANS" REALLY ARE.
[Gunmen growls]
>> Kittan: TIME FOR YOU TO DIE!
>> Simon: BACK OFF.
>> Kittan: WHAT’D YOU SAY?
>> Simon: I’LL HANDLE IT.
[Gunmen growls]
[Gunmen yelling]
[thunderous footsteps]
>> BOY, IT’S REALLY POURING.
>> IT’S BEEN SEVEN DAYS.
>> I STILL JUST CAN’T BELIEVE
IT.
>> YEAH.
[groaning]
>> Dayakka: WHAT’S GOING ON?
>> Ron: THERE’S NOT ENOUGH
ENGINE OUTPUT.
IT REFUSES TO STABILIZE.
[crash]
>> THAT HU‐U‐U‐URT!
>> Rossiu: HEY, ARE YOU ALL
RIGHT, KIYOH?
>> I’M FINE. I’M FINE.
THAT WAS A GOOD HIT.
>> Rossiu: I’M SORRY!
I CAN’T GET THE HANG OF THIS
POWER DISTRIBUTION THING.
>> Dayakka: THAT WAS IMPRESSIVE,
ROSSIU!
>> Rossiu: OH, DAYAKKA.
HELLO THERE, LEERON.
OFF TO THE ENGINE ROOM AGAIN?
>> Ron: YES, IT LOOKS LIKE OUR
LADY DAI‐GURREN IS A
TEMPERAMENTAL FELLOW.
>> Dayakka: DAI‐GURREN, EH?
>> Ron: YOKO INSISTED THAT WE
GIVE IT THAT NAME.
>> Dayakka: I SEE.
>> Ron: IT HAS A REPAIR FACTORY,
AND ITS LIVING QUARTERS ARE
FULLY EQUIPPED.
[yelps]
NOW IF WE COULD ONLY GET
THE MAIN ENGINE STABILIZED...
>> Dayakka: EVEN GURREN’S AS
GOOD AS NEW AFTER THAT POUNDING
IT TOOK.
IT’S ONE HELL OF A FACILITY.
NO DOUBT.
>> Kittan: SIMON!
GET YOUR ACT TOGETHER!
>> Ron: ALAS, THE ONLY THING IT
CANNOT SEEM TO MEND IS A BROKEN
HUMAN HEART.
>> Kittan: YOU KNOW, IT’S NOT
LIKE YOU’RE THE ONLY ONE ABOARD
THAT THING.
GURREN LAGANN IS
ABOUT TEAMWORK!
>> Simon: YEAH, WELL, NOBODY
ASKED YOU TO PILOT IT, SO DON’T
WORRY ABOUT IT.
>> Kittan: WHAT, YOU THINK YOU
CAN PILOT IT ALL BY YOURSELF?
>> Simon: SURE, I’LL DO IT BY
MYSELF.
GOOD IDEA.
IT’LL BE BETTER THAT WAY.
>> Kittan: WHY, YOU LITTLE...
DON’T GET TOO FULL OF YOURSELF!
YOU KNOW, IF YOU’D HAVE HELD IT
TOGETHER, KAMINA WOULDN’T BE
DEAD RIGHT NOW!
>> HEY, THAT’S ENOUGH!
SORRY, SIMON.
>> Simon: IT’S OKAY.
WHAT KITTAN SAID IS TRUE.
I KILLED BRO.
I’LL JUST GET TOUGHER.
I MEAN, I HAVE TO GET TOUGH.
I’LL FIGHT HARD ENOUGH
FOR BOTH ME AND BRO.
QUICK QUESTION FOR YOU, ROSSIU.
WHY DIDN’T THAT GOD OF YOURS
SAVE BRO’S LIFE?
OH, THAT’S RIGHT.
I FORGOT.
THE GOD YOU PRAY TO IS A GUNMEN,
SO IT’S NO WONDER HE DIED.
I MEAN, AFTER ALL, IT WAS A GOD
THAT KILLED BRO, WASN’T IT,
ROSSIU, WASN’T IT!?
>> Dayakka: SIMON.
>> Simon: I’M SORRY.
THAT WAS UNCALLED FOR.
[Boota grunts]
>> Simon: BOOTA, NOT NOW.
I’M EXHAUSTED.
BRO...
>> IT’S GOTTA BE KITTAN OR
NOBODY.
>> YEAH, YOU’RE RIGHT. KITTAN’S
THE ONE WHO CALLED US ALL
TOGETHER IN THE FIRST PLACE.
IT’S GOTTA BE HIM.
>> SIMON IS JUST TOO UNRELIABLE.
NOT TO MENTION DAMN MOPEY.
>> YEAH, HE’S JUST LAGANN’S
PILOT, AND THAT’S IT.
>> IF AN OBNOXIOUS LITTLE KID
LIKE SIMON IS MADE LEADER, TEAM
GURREN IS OFFICIALLY HISTORY.
[plates rattle]
>> Yoko: DAI‐GURREN.
IT’S NOT TEAM GURREN.
TEAM DAI‐GURREN!
>> Dayakka: DON’T EAT YOURSELF
SICK.
>> Yoko: I NEED TO KEEP UP MY
ENERGY.
OTHERWISE I CAN HARDLY USE MY
RIFLE.
THE FOUR GENERALS, THE SPIRAL
KING...
WE’VE STILL GOT LOTS OF ENEMIES
OUT THERE.
THE WAR CONTINUES TO GO ON
AND ON.
>> Dayakka: YEAH, GUESS YOU HAVE
A POINT.
KINDA LIKE THIS RAIN.
>> Yoko: EVEN WITH THE RAIN, I
CAN HAVE A HOT MEAL RIGHT AFTER
TARGET PRACTICE.
A WEEK AGO, I NEVER WOULD HAVE
IMAGINED THAT POSSIBLE.
AND IT’S ALL THANKS TO HIM.
>> Dayakka: LOOK, ABOUT SIMON...
HE SEEMS LIKE HE’S GETTING KINDA
WORN DOWN.
>> Yoko: I SEE.
>> Dayakka: AREN’T YOU WORRIED
ABOUT HIM?
>> Yoko: KEDA AND KAIA,
MYCEE AND NASHIKA...
WE SURE LOST A LOT OF PEOPLE
DEFENDING LITTNER, DIDN’T WE?
>> Dayakka: YEAH.
>> Yoko: SACRIFICES ARE
NECESSARY FOR SURVIVAL.
AND WE WORK HARD TO MAKE SURE
THEY AREN’T IN VAIN.
I’VE ALWAYS ACCEPTED THAT AS
PART OF WHAT WE DO.
BUT THIS TIME...
I DON’T THINK I CAN.
I’M SORRY.
IT’S ALL I CAN DO TO KEEP
MYSELF TOGETHER THESE DAYS.
YOU SAID YOU’D RETURN THAT KISS
TEN TIMES OVER.
BUT INSTEAD YOU LEFT ME WITH
A‐A BIG HOLE IN MY HEART!
KAMINA, YOU JERK.
[alarm sounds]
>> GUNMEN DETECTED!
THEY’RE CLOSING IN FROM
THE NORTHEAST!
>> Ron: I DESPISE PERSISTENT
TYPES!
>> Simon: LEERON!
I’LL COMBINE LAGANN WITH GURREN
AND HEAD OUT.
I’LL BE FINE ON MY OWN.
>> Rossiu: I’LL PILOT GURREN,
SIMON.
HANG ON.
>> Simon: ROSSIU?
>> Rossiu: I MEAN, YOU CAN’T DO
IT BY YOURSELF, RIGHT?
GO ON! COMBINE!
>> Simon: ALL RIGHT, FINE.
[Simon yelling]
>> Rossiu: SIMON, STOP!
YOU’RE PUSHING IT TOO HARD!
>> Simon: HE WHO STRIKES FIRST
WINS!
THIS IS HOW BRO WOULD HAVE DONE
IT!
>> Rossiu: OUR POWER OUTPUT IS
GETTING UNSTABLE!
>> Simon: BASTARD! BASTARD!
BASTARD! BASTARD! BASTARD!
[weapons firing]
[Rossiu yelps]
>> Simon: KEEP IT TOGETHER!
BRO, HE NEVER SCREAMED
LIKE THAT, NOT EVER!
>> Rossiu: SIMON, YOU HAVE TO
CALM DOWN!
IF YOU KEEP ON FIGHTING THIS
WAY, YOU’LL BE THE ONE WHO DIES
THIS TIME!
>> Simon: BRO WOULD NOT RUN
AWAY!
NOT KAMINA! NOT EVER!
[yelling]
>> Rossiu: WHAT’S GOING ON?
WHAT’S THE MATTER?
THE ENERGY IS FEEDING BACK.
TH‐‐THE DRILL!
>> COME BACK HERE, DAMN YOU!
>> Yoko: ROSSIU!
ARE YOU ALL RIGHT?
>> Kittan: WHAT HAPPENED!
>> Rossiu: LAGANN JUST
SUDDENLY SEPARATED AND THEN...
>> Yoko: IT FELL?!
>> Kittan: HE ABANDONED YOU AND
RAN IN THE FACE OF THE ENEMY?
>> Rossiu: IT SEEMED LIKE LAGANN
WENT BERSERK.
>> Kittan: BERSERK? SERIOUSLY?
>> Rossiu: YES.
>> Yoko: SIMON, NO.
[coughing]
>> Simon: WHY DID THE CONTROLS
STOP RESPONDING?
GOOD, IT STARTED!
[giggles]
>> Nia: HAIL, FELLOW. WELL MET!
>> Simon: "H‐‐HAIL, FELLOW?"
IS THAT WHAT YOU SAID?
>> Nia: AND WHO ARE YOU, MY GOOD
SIR?
>> Simon: "GOOD‐‐GOOD SIR"?
NO, I’M NOBODY IMPORTANT
ENOUGH TO BE CALLED THAT.
>> Nia: THIS IS THE OUTSIDE,
ISN’T IT?
THIS MUST BE RAIN!
[water splashes]
IT’S COLD.
WHAT IS THIS?
>> Simon: UM, THAT’S DIRT.
HEY, UM, ARE YOU OKAY WITHOUT
ANY SHOES?
>> Nia: IT’S SO THICK AND COLD
AND WET AND GOOEY AND SQUISHY.
IT’S WONDERFUL!
>> Simon: REALLY? IT IS?
>> Nia: I DO NOT UNDERSTAND.
HOW ARE YOU THE SAME AS I AM?
>> Simon: EH?
>> Nia: YOU HAVE NO TAIL, NO
CLAWS, NO FEATHERS.
THAT AND YOUR SKIN IS SO SOFT.
>> Simon: WELL, THAT’S ONLY
NATURAL.
I MEAN, AFTER ALL,
I’M A HUMAN BEING.
>> Nia: "HUMAN BEING"?
>> Simon: YEAH. A HUMAN.
YOU KNOW, LIKE A PERSON.
>> Nia: PLEASE TELL ME WHAT,
EXACTLY, IS A HUMAN?
>> Simon: HUH?
WELL, A HUMAN IS...
WELL, LIKE YOU AND ME.
YOU KNOW, WE HAVE ARMS AND LEGS
AND A HEAD, STUFF LIKE THAT.
>> Nia: THERE ARE OTHERS LIKE
YOU?
>> Simon: YEAH. SURE.
THERE’S LOTS MORE.
>> Nia: REALLY? AND ALL OF THEM
ARE THE SAME AS YOU?
THEY HAVE THE SAME FACE
AND EVERYTHING?
>> Simon: NO, WE’RE NOT
ALL IDENTICAL.
THAT WOULD BE CREEPY IF EVERYONE
HAD THE SAME FACE.
>> Nia: IT WOULD BE CREEPY?
OH! THE RAIN HAS STOPPED!
>> Simon: HEY, YOU’RE RIGHT.
>> Nia: I WONDER...
WHY AM I OUTSIDE?
>> Simon: UM, WELL, I, UH, I
DON’T...
FIRST THINGS FIRST, THOUGH.
WE REALLY NEED TO GET
OUT OF HERE.
HERE.
>> Nia: HMM?
>> Simon: YOU CAN’T WALK LIKE
THAT.
PUT THOSE ON.
>> Nia: ALL RIGHT.
MY NAME IS NIA.
WHAT ARE YOU CALLED?
>> Simon: WHO, ME?
MY NAME IS SIMON.
>> Nia: SI‐MON.
I THINK THAT NAME IS NICE.
>> Simon: GEE, THANKS, NIA.
>> Nia: TELL ME, SIMON.
>> Simon: TELL YOU WHAT?
>> Nia: WHAT IS THAT THING RIGHT
THERE?
[Simon yells]
[Gunmen roars]
>> Simon: HURRY! THIS WAY!
>> Nia: SIMON, WHAT IS THAT?
>> Simon: THAT’S A GUNMEN!
AND HUMANS WHO LIVE ON THE
SURFACE ARE AT WAR WITH GUNMEN!
>> Nia: YOU’RE AT WAR?
>> Simon: YEAH, IF WE DON’T
FIGHT, THEY’LL KILL US!
PLEASE WORK, LAGANN!
YES!
[yelling]
>> Nia: SIMON!
ARE YOU ALL RIGHT?
ARE YOU HURT?
>> Simon: DAMN IT! NOT AGAIN!
I DON’T GET IT!
WHY DO YOU KEEP REFUSING TO DO
AS I TELL YOU, LAGANN?!
YOU GOTTA RUN, NIA.
>> Nia: WHAT?
>> Simon: ONCE YOU START, KEEP
RUNNING AND DON’T LOOK BACK.
I’LL KEEP THE GUNMEN BUSY HERE.
>> Nia: BUT YOU...
>> Simon: I’M SICK OF IT!
I’M SICK OF HAVING TO WATCH
PEOPLE DIE!
I DON’T CARE WHAT HAPPENS
TO ME, JUST SO LONG AS NO ONE
ELSE HAS TO DIE!
>> Nia: IS IT REALLY YOUR WISH
TO STOP LIVING?
IF YOU ARE TRULY FRIGHTENED,
THEN YOU SHOULD RUN.
YOU MUST NOT DIE, SIMON.
>> Simon: NO...
NO, I’M‐‐I’M NOT SCARED.
>> Nia: YOU MUST NOT LIE,
EITHER.
COME, LET US ESCAPE
TOGETHER.
[Simon yelps]
[Gunmen grunts]
>> Yoko: I’M NOT LETTING...
ANYONE ELSE DIE!
>> Kittan: NEITHER AM I!
KITTAN STINGE‐E‐E‐ER!
NOW EAT THIS HEAD‐SPLITTER
FROM HELL! ARGH!
NOW THAT’S WHAT I’M TALKING
ABOUT!
[murmuring]
[Nia giggles]
>> FIRST HE DESERTS.
NOW HE’S GOT A WOMAN ON HIS ARM?
[everyone speaking at once]
>> Nia: SOME ARE SLENDER.
SOME ARE FAT. SOME ARE ROUNDED.
SOME ARE ANGULAR.
HUMANS COME IN ALL SHAPES
AND SIZES.
>> Ron: SO LET ME GET THIS
STRAIGHT.
YOU’VE NEVER SEEN ANOTHER HUMAN
BEFORE?
>> Nia: ONLY MY MOST HONORABLE
FATHER.
>> "HONORABLE FATHER," SHE SAYS.
>> Nia: OH, WHY, THANK YOU.
>> Ron: WHY IS THE OLD MAN HERE?
>> Nia: IT’S DELICIOUS!
>> Dayakka: SO WHEN YOU WOKE UP,
YOU DISCOVERED YOU’D BEEN
LOCKED IN THAT CONTAINER AND
THROWN INTO THAT GORGE FOR SOME
REASON?
>> Nia: YES.
>> Ron: DO YOU REMEMBER ANY
DETAILS ABOUT YOUR VILLAGE, SUCH
AS WHERE IT IS?
>> Nia: VILLAGE?
>> Ron: WHERE YOUR HOUSE IS.
>> Nia: NO. YOU SEE, I’VE NEVER
BEEN OUTSIDE BEFORE.
FATHER ALWAYS TOLD ME THAT THE
OUTSIDE WORLD WAS RATHER
DANGEROUS.
>> Dayakka: HE WAS RIGHT ABOUT
THAT.
SPEAKING OF YOUR FATHER,
I BET HE’S REALLY WORRIED
ABOUT YOU.
>> Nia: I’M NOT SO SURE.
>> Ron: OH?
>> Nia: WELL, UNFORTUNATELY,
I BELIEVE I MAY HAVE GONE
AND ANGERED MY FATHER.
>> Ron: WHAT’D YOU DO?
>> Nia: I ASKED HIM IF HE WOULD
TELL ME THE REASON WHY I WAS
BORN, AND, UM, AFTER I SPOKE...
I COULD FEEL MY FATHER
HAD CLOSED HIS HEART TO ME.
>> I DON’T GET IT.
>> Ron: YOUR FATHER SOUNDS LIKE
AN ODD MAN.
>> Simon: SO, LAGANN, WHAT’S
GOING TO HAPPEN WITH US NEXT?
ARE YOU JUST GOING TO ABANDON
ME, TOO?
WHAT THE HELL IS IT
THAT YOU WANT ME TO DO?!
I WANNA AVENGE BRO’S DEATH,
AND I CAN’T EVEN DO THAT?!
>> Rossiu: OH, YOKO?
>> Yoko: YOU PROBABLY SHOULDN’T.
NOTHING YOU COULD SAY RIGHT NOW
CAN HELP HIM.
YOU’LL ONLY MAKE THE HOLE
IN HIS HEART BIGGER THAN IT
ALREADY IS.
[gasps]
>> Dayakka: WHAT’S HAPPENING?!
>> Ron: WHAT’S GOING ON?
>> WHERE’S ALL THIS WATER
COMING FROM?!
>> WAIT JUST A SECOND!
LOOKS LIKE SOMETHING’S COMING!
>> Ron: SO WHAT IS IT?
>> IT’S HUGE.
>> THERE’S NO ESCAPE...
FILTHY HUMANS.
>> Nia: I KNOW THAT VOICE!
>> MAIN CANNON, FIRE AWAY!
>> Ron: I TOLD YOU THEY’RE NOT
READY YET.
ROSSIU!
>> Rossiu: I KNOW!
I’M MOVING OUT IN GURREN NOW!
>> Simon: NIA?
>> Yoko: ARE YOU STUPID OR
SOMETHING?
>> Nia: STOP THIS AT ONCE,
ADIANE!
>> Ron: WHAT THE...
>> WAIT A MINUTE.
IS THAT...
>> Nia: FIRST PRINCESS NIA,
DAUGHTER OF SPIRAL KING
LORDGENOME.
I COMMAND YOU TO LEAVE,
ADIANE THE ELEGANT!
ARE YOU NOT AWARE OF WHO I AM?
[rock music]
♪ ♪
[man singing in Japanese]
>> Nia: PRECIOUS MEMORIES...
DO THEY TIE PEOPLE DOWN?
OR ARE THEY WHAT SAVES THEM?
NEXT TIME ON GURREN LAGANN,
"WHO IS THIS BRO?"